Hi friends
In this video let us discuss about malloc vs calloc.
So we have learned both these functions to allocate memory
dynamically
So why do we need two different functions for the
same purpose which is dynamic memory allocation? What are the differences
between these two? First difference is in arguments. For malloc
We have just one argument which is the size specified
in bytes
But calloc takes two arguments
which are the number of elements and the size of the
element
Now let us discuss about initialisation
malloc doesn't initialise the memory area
The allocated memory area will have garbage values. But calloc
initialise the memory area to 0. calloc is
malloc() + memset(zero). memset is a
function which is used to fill a block of memory
with a particular value. Here
In case of calloc the memset function will
fill zero to the dynamically allocated memory
So whenever we want to allocate dynamic memory and initialise
with zero we can use the calloc function. So that's all and thank you for watching this video.